they say to get strong arms and powerful
shoulders you need to go to the gym pack
with tons of complicated equipment
you've probably heard this misconception
dozens of times but once you have a pair
of dumbbells and some flat surface you
can have an effective arm and shoulder
workout at home wall push-ups it's a
simple exercise that builds your
shoulders arms and chest and can make a
good warm-up straighten your arms and
place your palms on the wall and
standing on tiptoes with your feet
shoulder-width apart bend your elbows
and press yourself against the wall hold
this position for some time and slowly
push yourself back make sure to keep a
straight posture do 15 to 20 reps chest
supported dumbbell rows this exercise
builds muscles in your shoulders and
upper back lie facedown on an incline
bench or some surface tilted at an angle
with one end higher than the other
stretch your arms straight down and hold
a dumbbell in each hand squeeze your
shoulder blades and move your elbows
back to do the row
pause for a moment and return to the
starting position bent over reverse fly
take a dumbbell in each hand and bend
forward at the hips your knees slightly
bent and your core tight raise your arms
to the sides palms facing each other do
seven reps after that repeat this
exercise seven times with your palms
facing down for the last seven reps your
palms should face each other again but
this time do a forward raise
make sure you don't lift your shoulders
floor push-ups lie down on the floor or
an exercise mat with your hands under
your shoulders slowly lift your body off
the floor by extending your arms do 15
to 20 reps this exercise will work not
only your biceps triceps and shoulders
but also your chest and back muscles
incline dumbbell skull Crusher's lie
down on an inclined bench or any other
tilted surface with a dumbbell in each
hand bring your arms overhead your hands
shoulder-width apart slowly bend your
elbows and bring the dumbbells down
towards your temples
don't move your upper arms just your
forearm should work after several
seconds straighten your arms again do
three sets of 12 to 15 reps each but be
careful not to overdo it with big
weights from the get-go handstand
push-ups to do this exercise you'll only
need a wall crouch down facing away from
it then slowly and carefully put your
feet on the wall start to walk them up
the wall until your body is a straight
line be careful not to lose balance
place your hands shoulder-width apart
and lower yourself down by bending your
elbows when your head is slightly above
the floor start straightening your arms
to get to the initial position do as
many reps as you can dumbbell curls
shoulders back elbows tucked in to your
sides
and your palms facing forward bring the
dumbbells up to your chin by bending
your elbows and engaging your biceps do
four sets of ten to twelve reps reverse
chair push-ups this exercise works your
triceps prop your hands against the
stable surface behind you a chair a sofa
or a bench bend your knees at a 90
degree angle slowly lower your body by
bending your elbows then return to the
starting position do as many reps as you
can
zapman curls this exercise is similar to
simple dumbbell curls hold the dumbbell
in each hand your arm down by your sides
and your palms facing your body keep
your elbows locked at your sides and
lift the weights up to your chin your
palms turn toward your face do a 180
degree turn with your hands so that your
palms face outward now lower the
dumbbells back down to the starting
position
do four sets of ten to twelve reps
standing lateral raise with a dumbbell
in each hand
stand straight your feet hip width apart
your palms should be facing your body
and your elbow should be slightly bent
raise your arms to the sides until
they're parallel to the floor take a
short break
breathe in and lower your arms back to
the initial position repeat this
exercise from eight to twelve times
shadowboxing stand with your feet
shoulder width apart with one foot
placed in front of the other slightly
bend your knees extend one arm forward
and bend the other repeatedly alternate
the positions of your hands and feet
punching the air with your fists have
fun until you get tired seated shoulder
press sit down on a chair with a
vertical back two heavy dumbbells in
your hands your arms should be bent at
the elbow your palms facing forward and
feet position flat on the floor slowly
move your arms up by drawing the insides
of your elbows toward the head until
your arms are straight lower the
dumbbells back to the initial position
do eight to twelve reps this position
prevent you from swaying or dipping your
torso that's why you can try using
heavier weights bent over rows put a
dumbbell on the floor near some flat
surface place your left knee on this
surface your lower leg parallel to the
ground your right foot slightly bend at
the knee should be on the floor
left hand should be on the bench but not
too close to your knee with your right
hand take the dumbbell your palm facing
in pull the dumbbell straight up but
keep it near your body then lower the
dumbbell to the initial position but
don't put it on the floor switch sides
and start working your left shoulder do
10 to 12 reps on each side reverse grip
push-ups get on the floor with your arms
straight hands in line with your
shoulders and your feet straight behind
you pull your core in your stomach
shouldn't be hanging down turn your
hands in the opposite direction so that
they're pointed toward your toes try to
do four sets of 12 to 15 push-ups it
takes flexibility and strength and if
you can't do it just work your way up
from regular push-ups this style makes
the outer part of your triceps work hard
pull-ups for the next two exercises
you'll need a pull-up bar grab it with
your palms facing away from you you
should hold the bar with a very wide
grip more than shoulder-width pull
yourself up until your chest touches the
bar then lower your body in a controlled
fashion without using momentum repeat
the movement as many times as you can
without putting your feet on the ground
chin-ups the major difference between
chin ups and pull ups is that chin-ups
place more emphasis on your biceps wrap
the pull-up bar with your palms facing
toward you with a grip that's narrower
than shoulder-width create a small curve
in your lower back and pull yourself up
so that your chin reaches the top of the
bar keep your elbows close to your body
after several seconds lower yourself
repeat the movement without touching the
floor as many times as you can
seated bent over raise this exercise
builds the rear of your shoulders sit
down on a chair and bend over almost
touching your chest to the knees rip the
dumbbells and put your legs together
your back straight and your palms facing
your calves
slightly bend your elbows and raise your
arms to the sides until they're parallel
to the floor don't swing your torso or
raise the arms back
it can cause a back injury hold on for a
second and slowly lower your arms back
to your calves Pike press push your hips
up so that your whole body makes a
reversed v-shape lower your body in a
dive like motion while keeping your legs
straight then the elbows until your
forehead nearly touches the floor
between your hands exhale and press
yourself back up do as many reps as you
can this exercise is great for the front
and middle sections of your shoulders
and your upper back whoo-hooo
[Music]